#九轴soSense detection

Built-in an MPU-9250 nine-axis sensor, in addition to detecting acceleration and rotation in space, realizing somatosensory detection, somatosensory games, etc., can be achieved through the auxiliary detection of magnetometers. Detect attitude angles, compasses, etc. Advanced effects.

## Nine-axis somatosensory detection building list

There are two types of nine-axis somatosensory detection blocks, one for detecting the specified motion and the other for the value of the nine-axis sensor.

![9-axis body sensing] (../images/zh-tw/docs/webbit/board/mpu9250-01.jpg)

> *The nine-axis somatosensory detection block must be matched with the "development board" building block*. When the simulator is selected, the nine-axis somatosensory value cannot be obtained. However, the corresponding action can be simulated by the button of the specified action. Select USB and execute it through the USB connection. The line mode controls the entity development board, and Wi-Fi can be selected to specify Device ID control via Wi-Fi.
> - USB control mode is limited to "Installation Editor", please refer to [Editor] (../index.html#software)
> - Wi-Fi mode requires a development board to connect to Wi-Fi, please refer to [Hardware Development Board (Initial Settings)] (../info/setup.html)

![9-axis body sensing] (../images/zh-tw/docs/webbit/board/mpu9250-02.jpg)

## Detect the specified action

The "Detecting Specified Actions" building blocks can detect static, swaying, face up, back up, flip backwards, left to right, left to right, east, west, north, etc. 14 developments Board action.

![9-axis body sensing] (../images/zh-tw/docs/webbit/board/mpu9250-03.jpg)

In the example below, the development board will rotate to the right and a green arrow to the right will appear. When the development board is rotated to the left, a blue arrow to the left will appear. If the development board is shaken, a red smile will appear.

![Nine Axis Somatosensory Detection] (../images/zh-tw/docs/webbit/board/mpu9250-04.jpg)

If the simulator is used, a row of buttons will appear on the right side of the development board after the execution, and the specified action being detected will be indicated by the text. In the example above, it indicates that the right rotation, the left rotation, and the shaking are being detected.

![9-axis body sensing] (../images/zh-tw/docs/webbit/board/mpu9250-05.jpg)

## Get the value of the nine-axis sensor

"Get the value of the nine-axis sensor" The building block can obtain the values ​​of acceleration, magnetometer, gyroscope, and horizontal rotation, front, back, left, and right. (*The simulator cannot simulate this block, you must use the entity development board*)

![9-axis body sensing] (../images/zh-tw/docs/webbit/board/mpu9250-06.jpg)

### Accelerometer

The accelerometer mainly detects the "instantaneous" acceleration change when the x, y and z axes move linearly. The development board faces up, the gold finger is facing toward itself, and the vertical direction is the z axis (upward is negative, toward The bottom is positive), the left and right sides are the x-axis (negative to the left and positive to the right). The horizontal and horizontal are the y-axis (negative to their own direction, positive away from their own direction)*.

> Since the detected value is "acceleration", there may be a reverse acceleration at the moment of starting or stopping (as if the bus suddenly hits or starts, the passenger will lean forward or backward), so during development Exclude through some logical judgments, or avoid too many start and stop actions.

![Nine Axis Somatosensory Detection] (../images/zh-tw/docs/webbit/board/mpu9250-07.jpg)

Since the "Get the value of the nine-axis sensor" is only used once when it is used, it can be continuously detected with the infinite repeating loop. After the execution, the board is swung up and down and left and right, and the small monster can see the acceleration value.

> Because of the location and sensor initialization calibration, each development board will have a slight error when acceleration detection is enabled. Z is usually more than a thousand negative (in mg, 1 g is usually a gravity parameter) ), X and Y usually range from 200 to -200. At this time, you can pick up the board to swing up and down, and you will see the value change. Since the detected value is "acceleration", the development board does not have When moving or moving at a constant speed, the acceleration will remain within a stable value range.

![9-axis body sensing] (../images/zh-tw/docs/webbit/board/mpu9250-08.gif)

### Gyro

The gyroscope detects the "instantaneous" angle change during rotation. As shown in the figure below, the development board faces up, the gold finger is facing toward itself, * rotates around the z axis to yaw (clockwise rotation is positive, reverse The hour hand rotates negatively and rotates around the x axis to roll (clockwise to negative for itself, counterclockwise to positive) to rotate around the y axis to pitch (clockwise to positive, counterclockwise to negative)*.

![Nine Axis Somatosensory Detection] (../images/zh-tw/docs/webbit/board/mpu9250-09.jpg)

With the infinite repeating loop, you can continuously detect it. After executing the rotation of the development board, you can see the little monster telling the value of the gyroscope. Because it is the instantaneous angle change, when we stop rotating, the angle will return to the value at startup. * (The default is 0. If the value is not zero, please re-plug the development board USB cable, restart and try again).

![9-axis body sensing] (../images/zh-tw/docs/webbit/board/mpu9250-10.gif)

### attitude angle (roll, pitch, yaw)

The attitude angle is mainly combined with the values ​​of the accelerometer and the gyroscope, and can be combined to detect the front and back flip (roll), left and right flip (pitch) and horizontal rotation (yaw) of the development board, and the development board faces up, and the golden finger is facing itself. , * rotates around the z axis to yaw (counterclockwise rotation angle increments, the range is -180~180 degrees), rotates around the x axis as roll (clockwise rotation angle increments, interval -180~180 degrees) around y The axis rotates to pitch (counterclockwise rotation angle increments, range -180 to 180 degrees)*.

![9-axis body sensing] (../images/zh-tw/docs/webbit/board/mpu9250-17.jpg)

Continuously detect with an infinite repeating loop. After executing the rotation of the development board, you can see the value of the small monster's attitude angle.

![9-axis body sensing] (../images/zh-tw/docs/webbit/board/mpu9250-18.gif)

### Magnetometer

The magnetometer can detect changes in the magnetic field (mainly for the Earth's magnetic field), with the development board facing up, the gold finger pin facing itself, and the vertical up and down direction being the z axis (upward up, down down) The horizontal axis is the y-axis (positive to the left and negative to the right). The horizontal axis is the x-axis (negative to your own direction and positive to your own direction)*.

![9-axis body sensing] (../images/zh-tw/docs/webbit/board/mpu9250-11.jpg)

Before using the magnetometer, you need to perform "*8 word correction*" on the development board, plug in the development board and pick up the development board, and draw the shape of 8 in the air to correct it. If you encounter inaccurate conditions, proceed 8 Word correction will be much more accurate.

![Nine-axis somatosensory detection] (../images/zh-tw/docs/webbit/board/mpu9250-12.jpg)

With continuous repeating loops, you can continuously detect, rotate or move the development board after execution, you can see the small monsters tell the value of the magnetometer (you can take the magnet close when testing, you will find significant numerical changes, but because * magnet will Interfering with the magnetometer, after using the magnet, you need to re-authenticate the 8-word correction to the initial state*).

![9-axis body sensing] (../images/zh-tw/docs/webbit/board/mpu9250-13.gif)

### Electronic compass

The electronic compass is an extension of the magnetometer. Before use, you need to perform "*8 word correction*" on the development board. After 8 words correction, it can be used as a compass to detect the north and south of the object. The development board is facing up and the gold finger is connected. Towards yourself, the top of the development board points to the north, with a north angle of about 0, a positive east angle of about 90, a positive south angle of about 180 or -180, and a positive western angle of about -90*.

![9-axis body sensing] (../images/zh-tw/docs/webbit/board/mpu9250-14.jpg)

In the example below, in addition to letting the green monsters speak the azimuth, the logic of the red monster is used to tell the north and south of the east and west.

> Sample download: [Compass] (../images/zh-tw/docs/webbit/board/mpu9250-sample-01.json#_blank) (Use the right mouse button to save the new file)

![9-axis body sensing] (../images/zh-tw/docs/webbit/board/mpu9250-16.gif)

[Nine Axis Somatosensory Detection] (../images/zh-tw/docs/webbit/board/mpu9250-15.jpg)